In this lecture we're going to go ahead and create the texture for our Krait.
Now this is going to be a very simple texture to create.
And after we create this texture and apply it toward drawing We're going to go ahead and get into more
advanced texture creation and we'll fly that toward a crane also.
So you're going to get a taste for two different styles of texture in this section of the course.
So let's go ahead and jump right in.
The first thing we want to do is we want to create a new document seven new document here that's 800
pixels by 800 pixels.
And the first thing we want to do is add a new layer then using my Markee.
I'm going to go ahead and create a rectangle like so.
Now what this rectangle is for is we're going to create the individual planks that are going to make
up our wooden crate.
So the first thing we want to do is we want to select our color.
So I'm looking at my color picker and I'll come into my purple's and I'm going to come down about there
and we want it to be pretty saturated.
OK.
This is going to be our shadow color and shadow colors tend to be the saturated.
So let's go ahead and fill that rectangle in next what I'm going to do is I'm going to find my highlight
color.
So my highlight color is going to be sort of an orange color.
This is also going to be pretty saturated but not as saturated as my purple but there should be good.
Then let's go ahead and create a new layer and fill this in with our orange color and then we can go
ahead and use or Transform Tool to shrink that down.
Remember to hold down shift to keep its portions and in this case we actually don't want to keep the
portions we want it to become a little bit skinnier.
Otherwise we're not going to keep the same distance between the edges on the top and the side.
So let's go ahead and head.
OK.
Now we use the arrow keys on a keyboard to nudge that into place.
And what we're looking for is we're trying to get it into the center great.
Now you may be wondering why are we using sort of this orange ish pinkish color and this purple to create
a wooden crate.
Well a lot of the times it's a lot more interesting to use colors that are a little bit different than
what you would normally see.
Also the reason for the outline on our wood which is going to be shadow the reason why it's going to
be purple is because like we said before we want our shadows to be cool colors and the more vibrant
and exaggerated they are the more interesting your artwork is going to look.
Next what we're going to do is we're going to merge these two layers together.
And then we're going to copy this layer.
So now we have two next.
Let's go ahead and create a wood textured so I'm going to come in and I'm going to select a black then
using my brush too.
I'm going to go ahead and start painting in some wood grain on a new layer.
Like the.
Now if you don't know what green looks like or you're having a hard time envisioning it go ahead and
do a google search for woodgrain and use that as a reference.
It's very important to use reference when you're creating artwork all the greatest artists use reference.
So just remember whenever you're in doubt go ahead and look at some reference
for the most part woodgrain is going to be very random looking.
So do not worry about it being perfect by any means.
Get that will do the same for the other side.
Now we're going to be reusing these.
And I think this not right here or this.
I it's going to be way too prominent and recognizable when we reuse this plank of wood.
So I'm going to redo this area right here.
So just taking my soul.
Go ahead and erase that
and just go ahead and brush in something a little bit less noticeable.
So great.
Now I know this isn't looking very good but we're going to do something to it here in a second.
That's going to make it look amazing.
So what we're going to do first is we're going to go ahead and merge these two planks of wood together.
So now those are one and then we want to go ahead and select the shape on our layer by holding down
control.
Or if you're on a Mac you're going to hit command and then clicking your thumb nail on the layer and
see if we get this dotted line going around are shapes we're going to do now is we're going to invert
the selection.
So at the moment we have selected the inside of these planks.
We want to select this outside area so we're going to hold down control shift I.
And now you can see that just swapped it to this outside white area.
You can tell because there's a dotted line around the outside of your document.
And if you're on a Mac it's going to be command shift.
I and the reason why we wanted to flip this is because we want to delete this black area that's sticking
off the edges of our planks.
So now if we go ahead and switch up to our top layer which has a woodgrain on it we can go ahead and
hit delete.
Now get rid of all of that.
Great.
Now what we're going to do is we're going to copy this layer.
So go control J.
And then we're going to bring up our human saturation panel by hitting control you or command you if
you're on a Mac.
And now what we can do is we can change the saturation the lightness and the hue of our layer.
What we want to do is we want to change our black to white then we'll go ahead and hit OK.
So we solve our black one underneath.
Next what we're going to do is we're going to go ahead and take our black and we're going to nudge it
over one pixel like so then we're going to take our white Nejad over one pixel in the opposite direction.
Next we're going to go ahead and take our white layer and drag underneath the black layer.
This way it gives us more of a crack Canyon sort of effect next.
Let's go ahead and merge these two layers together and then we have a little bit sticking off the edges
because we noticed him over.
So what we want to do now is we want to select a shape once more for our Plank's invert that selection
by hitting control shift eye or command shift.
If you're on a Mac then we'll go ahead and hit delete and you couldn't really see it because it's being
covered up by the dotted lines.
But that just took care of the little bit that was sticking out the edges.
Next what we're going to do is we're going to change our blend mode from normal to overlay and then
we're going to bring our capacity down to about 62 percent.
Great.
So now we have our two wooden planks next what we want to do is we want to start moving these into our
document.
So first let's merge both these layers together so that it's easier to bring these over into her other
Next I'm going to go ahead and select one of these with my marquee tool then I'm going to copy it by
hitting Control-C on my keyboard.
Or if you're on a Mac it's going to be command.
See I'm going to come back in toward drawing file.
And let's go ahead and paste that in.
By having control VI or command vi then we're going to use a transform tool to shrink that down.
And the first thing we want to do is we want to make this back part of our wooden crate.
So this area and these triangles is going to be the back part where we have slats of our board is going
to crossed now our light source is going to be coming from the top.
So we want to make sure that we have this high light edge on our woodgrain on this side.
If it's on the other side it's going to look like the light source is coming from the bottom.
So let's go ahead and put that into place and we're going to hold down shift and shrink it down.
We hold down shift to keep his portions.
Then once we get it to the right spot in size we'll go out and hit enter and then let's do the same
thing again with our other wooden plank caesium and Marki to go ahead and select that copy it and paste
it.
Now we can go ahead and shrink that down.
So turn on transform tool and do like we did before with our other plank.
Let's rotate it.
Make sure that you have your highlight on the bottom side of your crane.
Get it lined up and remember to hold down shift as you shrink it to keep its portions.
And once we get into place although I did hit enter.
And then let's go ahead and merge these two layers together.
Now I'm noticing that the crack between each one of these boards is not dark enough.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead and zoom in there.
Then I'm going to select this purple and I'm going to grab a really dark version of it.
So somewhere down here should be good.
And switching over to my brush tool.
And I'm making sure that I'm on my pencil tool right here and then shrinking my brush size down to one
pixel on a click there and then hold down shift and comes straight across it like so now I'm going to
do this once more just to darken it a little bit more and then I'll do the same thing for the bottom
side here.
So a click track of crossed click and drag across it.
Let's go ahead and copy these two by selecting them copying them and then we're going to drag it up
like so
now we need one more appears so I'll just go ahead and copy another one in.
Then I'm going to bring down the opacity on the Slayer up here where it says opacities.
I'll bring that down to about 40 percent.
Doesn't really matter.
We just want to see the drawing behind it so we know where to cut this off at which we'll be right there.
So we'll hit delete and that can bring the opacity back up on that layer.
Great.
Now let's go ahead and merge all these layers together.
So I'm going to select them all and merge them.
So now that's one layer.
Next what we're going to do is we're going to go ahead and copy this layer and then we're going to drag
the copy over like so.
So now we just want to apply this to our box just like we did before with her drawing.
So we're going to turn on our Transform Tool right click and come to distort and then we're just going
to drag each one of these corners into the corners of our drawing like so and so now we're texture has
conformed to the correct perspective.
Let's go ahead and hit enter.
Let's go ahead and do this for other surface so we're going to come back down to this layer and we'll
go ahead and copy it.
I will drag that copy over and we'll line it up then use the Transform Tool and distort.
We'll bring that up to that corner.
Just get everything into the correct position.
Perfect.
Let's go in.
Enter now.
Let's go ahead and grab the sleigh right here.
The hands are drawn on it are going to drag the underneath all these.
So you can see what's going on.
All right.
This is looking pretty good in the next lecture.
We're going to go ahead and create the outside frame and the criss crossing planks and then we're going
to add a little bit of dimension to those and then we'll also add some light and shadow to our crate
to make it look a lot more realistic.
Thanks for watching this lecture.
And I look forward to seeing you in the next one.